# Hirer Referral Reward (2% HVT)

## Introduction:

New Hirers will be attracted to recruit on HireVibes Dapp for a number of reasons

To name a few: Intuitive user interface, Quality of candidates, Cost reduction, Social engagement through referrals and positive PR and CSR generation via the Donation feature. 

However, to drive new Hirers to HireVibes Dapp at a faster rate, the HV Launch Team have designed a **2% HVT Hirer Referral Reward**, which will be funded out of the **2.5% fee** earned by HireVibes.

This reward entails that any user will be able to refer a Hirer to HireVibes Dapp and earn a 2% HVT reward when that Hirer makes a successful hire. Success will be determined if and when that Hirer makes a hire successfully on HireVibes Dapp and the new hire completes the guarantee period relevant to the job type. (see section 5 of HireVibes whitepaper)

This Hirer Referral Reward is similar to the Candidate Referral Reward whereby any user can refer a Candidate for a 2% HVT reward upon success. This distribution of rewards will further incentivise users to join HireVibes Dapp and grow the eco-system as a whole.

**Overview:**
- This will be a once-off reward. Meaning; If the Hirer makes multiple follow up hires on HireVibes Dapp, there will be no referral reward of HVT due to any user. 

**How it works:**
 
1. When a new Hirer comes to HireVibes Dapp; that user must sign up and agree to the terms and conditions and constitutions.  
2. At this point -> There will be an information field that says; 
 
> Were you X referred to be a Hirer on HireVibes Dapp? If so, please enter the details of the referrer so we can send them some HVT as a reward to say thank you for referring you. This HVT reward will only be sent to the Referrer only if you end up making a hire on HireVibes Dapp

3. If the Hirer was referred, that user should enter the email address and details of the referrer
4. If and when the Hirer makes a hire on HireVibes Dapp; and the successful candidate reaches the payment (guarantee) terms of the job type; a smart contract will be triggered to redistribute the 5% HVT reward to the candidate and donation fund; at this point; the smart contract will also release the Hirer Referral Reward (2% HVT) which will be sent to the Hirer Referrer whose details were added by the Hirer at the start of the process when they signed up.


**In-House Recruiters - This Hirer Referral Reward still applies :)**

Most Hirer Referrals will likely come from Inhouse Recruiters signing up their own companies. 

For this reason we are planning to add the following details to this Reward Structure;

- When a new Hirer signs up and if they weren’t referred by anyone else; then that Hirer can input their own details and take the 2% Hirer Referral Reward. However when this happens, the 2% reward will not go to the In-House Recruiter that signed their company up. Instead; this reward will come off the total cost of the Hirer’s first hire.
- Meaning that Hirer’s first hire (and all new Hirers’ first hires) will cost 5.5% HVT, and all other hires they make after that will cost a 7.5% HVT token amount.

**Why?**
- This further reduction in cost to as low as 5.5% will increase the growth of new Hirers joining HireVibes Dapp. (5% will be redistributed automatically of course).
- Also, even though this Hirer Referral Reward will come at a cost to the HV DAC out of the HV Treasury; the HV Dapp will still earn a 0.5% token amount on every Hirer’s first hire, and a 2.5% token amount on every hire made thereafter.
- We expect repeat hiring from happy Hirers so by incentivising the usage of HV Dapp with a lower fee of just 5.5% on the first hire; we feel this CAC (cost of customer acquisition) is viable and will have a positive long term effect on the growth of HireVibes Dapp.


**Conclusion:**

A consistent increase in the number of Hirers joining HireVibes Dapp will have a positive effect on the amount of surplus tokens generated by HireVibes Dapp for the community to receive individually and to vote on collectively.

(50% of HireVibes Dapp surplus tokens generated will be redistributed to HVT token holders daily, the other 50% of surplus tokens will go into a HV Treasury Fund for voting on monthly or quarterly)
